SBOL Visual diagram rubric:


Compliance:
5.1.0: Features MUST NOT be on the same backbone if they are not located on the same sequence
5.1.1: Single-stranded regions of nucleic acid constructs MUST use a single line to indicate the backbone
5.2.1: The bounding box of a feature glyph MUST be in contact with the backbone
5.2.6: The glyph used for a feature MUST contain the role of the feature.
5.3.1: The glyph used for a molecular species MUST contain the type of the molecular species
5.3.2: The bounding box of a molecular species MUST NOT contact a nucleic acid construct unless it interacts with it.
5.4.1: Interactions that intersect MUST use a crossover pattern that “diverts” to indicate the distinction between edges
* Compliant, but not best practice if another method clearly distinguishes, e.g., color
5.4.2: The glyph used for an interaction MUST contain the type of the interaction
5.4.3: An edge with multiple heads MUST use the same glyph for each head
5.4.4: The glyph used for an interaction node MUST contain the type of the interaction
5.4.6: An edge MUST NOT connect to the head or tail of another edge
5.5.2: Glyphs for sequence features and molecular species MUST NOT intersect the boundary of a subsystem.
5.5.5: If an interface rectangle is used to indicate that a feature is part of the interface of a subsystem, then any interaction crossing the boundary and connecting with that feature MUST pass through the interface rectangle..




Best practices:
5.1.1: In a diagram with both single- and double-stranded nucleic acid constructs, double-stranded constructs SHOULD use double lined backbones.
5.1.2: Nucleic acid backbones SHOULD be horizontal unless using non-horizontal structure to indicate physical attributes (e.g., closed loop for cyclic plasmid or complex shapes showing secondary structure).
5.1.3: Backbones SHOULD use the shape of plasmid and locus glyphs to indicate those features, and the omitted detail glyph to indicate context not shown.
5.1.4: A nucleic acid backbone SHOULD have at least one feature glyph  
* Unless it is an assembly diagram.
5.2.1: Glyphs SHOULD follow the recommendation for backbone alignment in the glyph specification.
5.2.2: Reverse complement SHOULD be consistently indicated by 180-degree rotation, not horizontal-only inversion.
5.2.3: Inline 5’ to 3’ SHOULD be drawn left to right, and reverse complement right to left.
5.2.4: Nucleic acid features SHOULD NOT overlap unless their locations overlap 
* Flexible on bounding box overlap if glyph does not overlap.
5.2.5: Nucleic acid features SHOULD overlap if their locations overlap
5.2.6: A nucleic acid SHOULD use the RECOMMENDED version of the most specific applicable glyph. Novel more-specific glyphs are acceptable.  
* Flexible on version
* Special case: arrow version of CDS is accepted
* Special case: straight line for restriction site is accepted
* Special case: double slash line break (–//–) for omitted material is compliant but not best practices
5.3.1: A molecular species SHOULD use the RECOMMENDED version of the most specific applicable glyph. Novel more-specific glyphs are acceptable.
* Special case: oval is OK to use for protein, since it’s a degenerate form of pill glyph
5.3.3: If a molecular species overlaps a nucleic acid construct, the location of the overlap SHOULD correspond with the location of the interaction, the molecular species glyph SHOULD be distinct from a sequence feature glyph, and the location SHOULD be represented with a feature glyph appropriate to the interaction.
5.4.1: Two interaction edges SHOULD NOT cross one another.
5.4.2: An interaction SHOULD use the RECOMMENDED version of the most specific applicable glyph. Novel more-specific glyphs are acceptable.
5.4.4: An interaction node SHOULD use the RECOMMENDED version of the most specific applicable glyph. Novel more-specific glyphs are acceptable.
5.4.5: An edge SHOULD NOT connect to only one head of a multi-head arrow or only one tail of a multi-tail arrow.
5.5.1: The boundary of a subsystem SHOULD be a rectangle or rounded rectangle with sides oriented vertically and horizontally, and SHOULD be larger and have a different line style than other glyphs.
5.6: If an object’s name is displayed, it SHOULD be clearly visually connected to the object’s associated glyph.